=Introduction=

Ocsigen Toolkit provides various user interface widgets and related
utilities that assist in the rapid development of interactive Web
applications.

Ocsigen Toolkit is built with [[site:/eliom|Eliom]].

==Installation and getting started

You can install Ocsigen Toolkit via OPAM:

{{{
opam install ocsigen-toolkit
}}}

You may want to use Ocsigen Toolkit in conjunction with
[[site:/ocsigen-start|Ocsigen Start]], which provides an application
template for quickly getting started with Ocsigen. The template
provides various runnable examples of Ocsigen Toolkit widgets. See the
<<a_manual project="ocsigen-toolkit" chapter="intro" | Ocsigen Start
manual >> for details.

==Programming style

Most of the Ocsigen Toolkit widgets can be produced invariably on the
server or on the client (with the same code). This enables a
mobile-friendly programming paradigm, where most code lies in shared
sections. The server instance of the code can be used to produce pages
(with Ocsigen Toolkit widgets) during traditional Web interaction,
while the client instance can be used to render the same pages and
widgets on a mobile device without contacting the server. See the
<<a_manual project="eliom" chapter="mobile-apps" | mobile applications
section >> of the Eliom manual for details.

The widgets generally follow a reactive programming style. We use
<<a_api project="eliom" subproject="server" | module Eliom_shared >>
extensively, which allows us to produce this reactive content on both
sides.
See
<<a_manual project="eliom" chapter="clientserver-react" | the respective manual chapter >>
for more info.
<<a_api project="eliom" subproject="server" | module Eliom_shared >>
signals and events appear in the Ocsigen Toolkit APIs, and can be used
as a mechanism for composing different widgets.

==CSS

Most widgets need appropriate CSS to display properly. We provide
default CSS files, normally installed in

{{{~/.opam/${SWITCH}/share/ocsigen-toolkit/css/}}}

Ocsigen Start uses these files by default. If your application does
not use Ocsigen Start, you will need to include the CSS manually.

Of course, you are free to modify the style to suit the desired look.

==Widgets overview

* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_buttons >>:
  provides a dropdown menu widget
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_calendar >>:
  calendar widget, allowing the user to pick dates
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_carousel >>:
  container for blocks, only one of which is displayed at a time,
  with various ways to move between them (buttons, swipe, keyboard arrows)
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_drawer >>:
  a drawer menu that typically appears on an edge of the screen.
  It can  appear/disappear via buttons or by swiping.
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_picture_uploader >>:
  user interface for uploading pictures
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_popup >>:
  popup windows that can be controlled in various ways
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_range >>:
  widget for picking one among a range of values
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_spinner >>:
  a spinner that appears while we wait for "slow" HTML content to be
  generated
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_swipe >>:
  make element swipeable on touch screens
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_time_picker >>:
  clock-like widget that allows the user to pick a time
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_toggle >>:
  binary toggle widget

=== Non-widget utilities

* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_nodeready >>:
  produces an Lwt thread allowing one to wait for a node to be
  inserted in the DOM
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_noderesize >>:
  listen to element resize events
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_size >>:
  utilities to deal with DOM element dimensions
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_social_meta >>:
  extract social meta tags from documents
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_lib >>:
  functions useful for other widgets
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_sticky >>:
  make elements "sticky", i.e., do not let them go out of sight
* <<a_api subproject="server" | Ot_style >>:
  an interface to {{{Window.getComputedStyle()}}}
